    This document is a list of questions and answers meant to help explain what 
Stirling is, to someone with absolutely no knowledge of what a textual 
multiplayer roleplaying game is.  If you're just starting off, read this first!


What is Stirling?

    Stirling is an engine, written in Python 3.2, for creating engaging and 
deep textual multiplayer roleplaying game.


What's a textual... whatever you just said.

    Textual multiplayer roleplaying game?  If you're familiar with games such 
as World of Warcraft, Eve Online, or any other MMORPG like EverQuest, it might 
help to think of Stirling as an engine for making a game like that, but without 
the pictures.
    In truth, Stirling is much more related to the predecessor of all those 
games listed above: the MUD, or multi-user dimension.  Originally created by 
Richard Bartle, MUDs were really the first MMO, created long before most 
computers could play any graphical game.  MUDs used words and numbers to 
represent their game world, rather than the avatars and environments of today's 
MMORPGs.
    Stirling takes the text-based nature of MUDs - which was a necessity of 
the hardware at the time -  and treats it as a feature.  There is a lot that 
can be done with a text game, and Stirling aims to prove it.


Okay, so it's an MMORPG with words, like a story.  But how do you *play*?

    In order to interact with the game, you type in what you would like 
to do.  If you want to look at your surroundings, you would type "look".  If 
you want to sell your firstborn, "haggle price of firstborn with gypsy".  The 
entire game is represented via text, so that's how you interact with it.


Why on earth would I want to type that stuff when I could just play a normal 
MMORPG and just click on stuff?

    For the same reason people still read Lord of the Rings, rather than just go 
watch the movie: text is the best medium for it.  Sure, Stirling could have been 
written as a graphical game.  But then some features we have planned (such as 
neighborhoods being able to transition from slums to lavish mansions, or combat 
where you might die two weeks later of an infection) would be nearly impossible.  
Like I said earlier, Stirling plans to take the fact that we're a text-based 
game and treat it like a feature.


What was that you said about infection?  And slums?

    Stirling is a fresh look at what textual roleplaying games can be, and as 
such, we have planned a lot of features that are, to the best of our knowledge, 
unique in any MMORPG.  If you want to read more about any given element of 
Stirling's gameplay, check out /docs/concepts/mechanics/.  Or, of course, log 
in and look at them first hand.


